This book contains several house cleaning lists, and several blank
cleaning schedules for you to fill out based on your unique needs,
family life, time and energy level, and home.
I’ve been asked many times to create a one size fits all schedule,
but honestly it will just not work because we all know that
everyone is not the same. Therefore, I’ve done the next best
thing. I’ve created house cleaning checklists showing common and
almost universal tasks that need to be done daily, weekly, and less
frequently around your home for some of the most used areas of
your home, like your kitchen, bathrooms and bedrooms.
After reviewing these checklists you can use them as a memory
jogger to create your own schedules. The lists can be used to
make sure you don’t forget something obvious, like to schedule
time to wash sheets each week, for example. These house
cleaning lists also help you know the appropriate intervals that
common items should be cleaned at. That way you know what
items to focus on for daily, weekly, and less frequent tasks.
For even more help in creating your personalized schedules, and
to see examples of other people’s schedules, check out these
resources on Household Management 101, all of which contain
both my schedule for my own home, and also other people’s
schedules that they’ve shared.
• Daily House Cleaning Schedule
• Weekly House Cleaning Schedule

Use the articles listed above for ideas on what needs to be
included in each of your schedules, but make sure you tweak your
schedules to fit your own family and lifestyle.
Once you have created at least rough outlines of your household
cleaning schedules put them in your household notebook. This
allows everyone in your home to look at them, and participate in
the process.
Also, know that as things change in your home and life you will
need to change your cleaning schedules to accommodate those
life changes. When you feel like your schedule isn’t working for
you anymore go back to the checklists again to brainstorm and
create a new schedule that works with the new circumstances in
your life and home.
Once you’ve made your schedules I’d love it if you would share
them with me at the links above. This is really a resource for all
of us, to see some examples to give us ideas, by seeing what
works for someone else. You can help others with your ideas!
Caution: Do Not Become A Slave To Your Cleaning Schedule
You will see positive results if you draft a cleaning schedule and
follow it, at least most of the time. On the other hand, do not
become a slave to your cleaning schedule to the point that you do
not have time to do other important things, like spending time
with your family.
Cleaning schedules are meant to help you "get it done, and have
more fun," not to become a means unto themselves. So what if
there is an emergency or your sweet little child wants to cuddle

with his Mommy? Focus on priorities for cleaning when you are in
a hurry, and continue to enjoy your family and your home at the
same time. That means your schedules should emphasize the
priorities, and then have everything else be extras that would be
wonderful to get done, but can be cut out in a pinch.
It also means that if your cleaning schedule is 10 pages long you
are not focusing on the priorities. Make sure your housekeeping
schedule is short enough to actually get done on a regular basis.
Save the big cleaning for quarterly or seasonal work, when you
devote a day or more to some big projects. Your daily and weekly
house cleaning schedules, and your laundry schedule, should only
take up a small part of your day – not all day.
Are you ready to make your schedules? If so, read on to see the
checklists I’ve created for you as a reference so you can fill out
your own unique cleaning schedules that fit your life, family and
home. 

So, you moved out! Congratulations! It’s always nice to be able to say that a
house is “my place”. The thing is, however, that with great freedom comes
great responsibility. When it comes to having your own place, that means
taking care of it, keeping it clean and tidy (or at least decent, just enough not
to feel shame when you have an unexpected visit). And, since it is very
probable that you do not actually own the place, and you do not live there
alone, it also means managing the house chores by splitting common tasks
and costs. This book is about how to do all that.
First things first: please, know that living with other people and taking care
of a house means being especially aware of the importance of respecting
each other and communicating needs in an effective way. That means that
people who live in the same house must come to an agreement on how to
manage its running: different people have different habits, and if you live
together it is essential that you decide together what’s the best way to do it.
Don’t assume, ask questions and make observations. This is the only general
rule: find a system that works for all of the people who live together and
stick to it.
The rest is easy: you just have to get the right information on how to clean
things and make domestic devices last as long as possible. This guide will
make it even easier. You will find tips on what products to use and how to
clean the house in an eco-friendly way: protecting the environment should
be important for us all, but especially for young people.
Let’s begin with some general tips.