If there are more than ¾ people sharing the house, sweep the floor every
day in the kitchen, the living room or any other common spaces. In your
own room, sweep it at least once or twice per week.
Mop all of the floors in the common spaces at least 2-3 times per week.
Do it more often if necessary. In your own room, do it at least once per
week.
Remember to clean the mop and the broom after using them, and to
change the vacuum cleaner’s dust-collecting bag when it’s full. if you
have a vacuum cleaner, you can use the pipe to clean the broom: you just
have to gently pass the tube over the bristles. It's a quick and efficient
way to remove the hair that gets stuck. In general, put on a glove, take
everything you can off the bristles and throw it in the garbage.


Specific to the type of floor:
Laminates: Vacuum or sweep dirt, then use a mop
dampened with a mild cleaner-and-water solution.
Wipe away lingering moisture with a dry cloth mop.
Linoleum: Mop regularly with a multisurface cleaner.
To maintain shine, wax every two to six months.
Apply two coats, waiting for the first to dry before
adding the second, then buff with a soft cloth mop.
Ceramic tiles: Mop with warm water and tile cleaner,
then use a dry cloth to absorb water that collects in
grout lines.


Another very common problem for young people sharing houses is the piling
up of garbage. Designating someone to take it out is more important than it
looks, because relying on everyone’s common sense is just not effective:
young people are busy, they go in and out of the house very often and don’t
always notice if a trash bag needs changing. Also, all of us should be sensitive
about protecting the environment and recycling as much as possible. There
are many ways to recycle: just make sure to know how it's done in your living
area and what are your legal responsibilities as a tenant.
TRASH
Essential products:
Plastic bags (size varies according to needs),
better if re-used and/or biodegradable. For
practical reasons, it’s a good habit to have
them in different colors, according to the
content.
Generic disinfectant product (spray or liquid)
and a cloth to clean the bins.

Take the bins out when full (avoid overloads as much as possible,
especially in spring/summer and especially when there is a lot of organic
waste) and leave them in the proper containers. If more than ¾ people
leave together, this can be a daily task.
Clean the bins using soap or disinfectant product before putting the new
bag on, especially when there is a lot or organic waste or if there are
remaining liquids from bottles and/or other envelopes.
To minimize the use of plastic bags, if possible, try to take the whole
bucket with you outside and throw the garbage away, leaving the „old”
bag in for a new use. This is especially convenient for the plastic/paper
waste bag, since it tends to be cleaner.

When you throw bottles/boxes and other voluminous envelopes, fold or
smash them, so they will take less space and spare you an extra trip.
Pizza boxes, for example, can be unfolded and rolled.

Keeping young people’s kitchens tidy is
usually extremely difficult, especially in big
houses, with a lot of roommates running on
different timetables. Nonetheless, there are
some basic things that need to be done
regularly, no matter how short-term the
results may be.

1 generic degreasing and disinfectant gel or spray
product
1 sponge/microfiber cloth (you might need more if the
kitchen is bigger and shared by more than ¾ people)
2 dry cotton or microfiber clothes (more if more than ¾
people share the kitchen)
Rubber gloves

Clean thoroughly the toasters, the stove, the oven, the sinks, the dish
racks, the outside of the cupboards, the microwave, the washing
machine (if there is one in the kitchen) and the chairs at least 1-2 times
per week, using a generic degreasing and disinfectant gel or spray
product and a wet sponge or microfiber cloth. For persistent dirt, see
„General tips”.
Clean the counters every day using the same products as above.
Check if the towels need to be replaced, change them when necessary.
Put all of the dry dishes, pots, pans and cutlery back into the cabinet
whenever necessary, without letting them stack. Sometimes, this
implies doing it several times per day.
Dry the dishes before storing them if they are still wet, don’t let the
cabinets turn into a new habitat for bacteria!

take everything out,
turn it off,
remove baskets, bins and shelves,
spray everything with an all-purpose cleaner,
scrub with a cloth or a sponge and dry.
To make sure that there’s no stains, sticking nor smells,
you can also put some baking soda on the removed parts,
and then scrub it.
For little corners and edges, you can use a toothbrush.
Then, you can put the food back in, but remember to
turn the cooling system on, and pass a cloth on
everything to make sure that there’s no leaking jar,
bottle, tupperware or bag.

Weekly, check the expiration date of the food in the fridge: when different people
share the same fridge, there's always some open box, bottle or can that everyone
has forgotten about, and sooner or later it will start to smell or leave stains.
At least seasonally, clean it: it can gather a lot of unwanted dirt, especially if it’s a
big one. The procedure is fairly simple:

This is one very important thing to do that doesn't get done as often as it
should, especially in houses with young tenants. The frequency can vary:
depending on the freezer itself and on its usage, frost can form at different
speeds.
Generic disinfectant product (spray or
liquid), a sponge and a cloth
1 towel
1 casserole/other low recipient to collect
the water
1 Rubber spatula to remove extra chunks
Cooler/s (extra)
Bowl of hot water (extra)

Take out everything that’s stored in the freezer, as well as the drawers;
Turn it off, put a towel on the floor in front of it and some sort of a casserole to collect
the water on the towel;
To speed up the process, you can place a bowl of hot water on the bottom shelf of the
freezer. Something definitely more risky is using an hairdryer, but you have to make
sure that no part of it (especially the cord) comes in touch with water, and that’s not
easy. The safest way is just letting the ice melt.
When it’s all gone, you can clean the walls and the shelves using a sponge and a dry
cloth. If the ice was really thick, there might be chunks you will need to remove
manually. If so, do it with a rubber spatula, but make sure not to scrape any tubes and
wiring on the back wall.
Finally, remember to turn it back on.


Keep the door of the freezer open as little as possible;
Check the door seal and make sure it’s in a good condition: if the door
isn’t closing properly and there are some air gaps, you are going to waste
a lot of time defrosting. A good test is to put a piece of paper (it can be a
banknote) between the door and the seal: if it grips all the way around,
it’s fine, if it falls, you need to replace the seal.
Always push the drawers back fully: sometimes, the door doesn’t close
properly just because a drawer is not pushed all the way back.

So, in some houses (depending on the location) you might notice some
strange flies who make their nests close to kitchen cupboards and cabinets
and leave their eggs all over or even inside food boxes and bags. Having to
deal with these flies (the scientific name is Opomyza florum) is NOT fun, but
here are some tips:
Always close food boxes and bags really well:
all it takes to these flies to get in is a tiny
hole. Pay special attention to your cereals:
they love rice, pasta, oats, quinoa, couscous,
leguminous and related products.
Check for their nests. They usually are very
close to cabinets and cupboards or even
inside jars and boxes, if they are not closed
properly.
You can also try and hang flypaper in your
food storage, although it’s not always
effective.
