Full Grizzly Adams beards, patiently manicured stubble and all levels of facial hair in between can look great on the right guys, and they can even be trendy. But the most classically stylish amount of scruff to have is none at all. Which is why so many of the best-dressed guys in the world have a tendency to keep their faces bare—and why there’s a veritable sea of products designed to assist with the routine act of maintenance we call shaving.

The list of products below, from grooming stalwarts like Acqua di Parma and Lab Series to newer firms such as Supply, can help any guy get a close, comfortable shave.

If you haven’t yet heard of Eredi Zucca, that’s about to change. The upstart Milanese barber shop was designed to look like it’s been there for centuries—since the days when the city’s barbers looked after more than its residents’ hair, skin, and nails, and were relied upon to perform even small surgical procedures.

That heritage is distilled in a range of products, including this glass bottle of shaving “cream.” Its serum-like texture and alluring citrus smell are designed to make shaving easier and more comfortable. You can use it on its own, or pair it with a true shaving soap once it’s hydrating blend of vitamin B5 and plant extracts have softened your facial hair.

After my boyfriend and I moved into our new apartment a few weeks ago, we brainstormed ways to spruce up our living room—starting with the sofa. The three-seater had started pilling uncontrollably, so much so that my trusty fabric shaver could no longer save it. We talked about buying a whole new couch, but ultimately decided against it, since our current one still had good bones and cushion support. Instead, we chose to invest in a sofa cover—one that would not only hide all the unsightly spots on the upholstery and protect it from further damage, but also give our well-loved piece of furniture a much-needed facelift. 



We don’t have any children or pets, so we prioritized style over function, aiming to find a stylish sofa cover we could leave on most of the time and effortlessly toss in the wash when needed. Whether you’re searching for a sustainable way to salvage your old settee or puppy-proof your brand-new loveseat, here are a few points you should consider while shopping for a slipcover.

What to Consider Before Buying the Best Sofa Covers:
Function: Will your sofa cover be purely decorative or serve a more pragmatic purpose? Do you want it to cover your entire couch or just the top? If you’re a pet owner, you’ll likely need a couch protector that’s slobber- and scratch-resistant. And those with kids will probably want one that’s nice and snug, but also impervious to spills and stains. Whichever option you choose, make sure it fulfills your intended function. 


Material: The best sofa covers are made of thick fabrics that are both comfortable and durable. Most are made of cotton, polyester, spandex, or a combination of the three. Each textile has its own pros and cons. Canvas, for example, makes for a versatile and hardwearing protector, while chenille is plush and wrinkle-resistant, but not as long-lasting. Select a material based on your primary purpose and personal style. 

Size: Most couch protectors are made to stretch and fit a variety of sizes, but some are custom tailored to suit only certain shapes or models. Before setting off to buy one, jot down the width, height, and depth of your sofa to determine its dimensions. (Measure twice, just in case!) Another feature to carefully consider is your sofa’s arm cushion style. While some couch covers can accommodate all types of arms, others are limited to a single kind, such as box cushion or T cushion. Make sure your pick fits the bill on all fronts.

Vogue’s guide to the best vintage stores in Dallas/Fort Worth is part of our directory of the very best vintage around the world, curated by editors from all over. Whether you’re traveling and searching for some superb stores to visit on your trip or are curious about your local vintage treasure chests, Vogue’s directory has you covered.

Thanks to Beyoncé, we're in a bit of a Texas renaissance. And while the Dallas/Forth Worth area is a fantastic place to find vintage Justin cowboy boots, authentic turquoise jewelry, and a rainbow of broken-in Levis, that's not all the city has to offer. The home of the first Neiman Marcus and a huge art scene has a long and storied history of loving fashion—and now, vintage lovers can reap the benefits. If you're into hitting up an estate sale (certainly worth it if one piques your interest), try any of these shops to find something of your own from The Big D.

How To Use This Book To Help You
Keep Your House Clean
Almost everyone needs some help keeping their house clean from
time to time. That is what this book is designed to do.
We all want our homes to be clean, for many reasons, including
for enjoyment, pride, and safety, among others. However, it often
happens that we forget all about a task that needs to be done
until all of a sudden it has to be done right then.
Some examples include washing pots and pans so you can cook
tonight’s dinner, or needing to run a load of laundry because
everyone is out of clean underwear. It can happen to the best of
us when life happens, but it should be the exception, not the rule,
if for no other reason than we deserve better.
Our Homes Run In Cycles

Everything in your home runs on a cycle. There is the laundry
cycle, for example, where you wear and dirty clothes, wash and
dry them, and then wear and dirty them again. There is also a
cleaning cycle, such as with dishes, with clean ones getting used
and becoming dirty, and then getting cleaned again.
What we want to achieve is a home where this cycle doesn’t get
stalled at a single point – dirty. It is when the cycle stops spinning
and points only to dirty that we are uncomfortable and unhappy
because we cannot do what we want or need to do as conveniently
as possible. 
Since most of us cannot afford servants who can “magically” make
clean underwear and dishes appear we have to keep the cycle
going ourselves.
House Cleaning Schedules Anticipate Cycles And Keep The
Cycle Moving Forward
Cleaning schedules, when actually used, are the best and easiest
way to live comfortably most of the time. That is because good
schedules anticipate the cycle various things in our home move to,
and help us keep the cycle moving, where it doesn’t stop at dirty
and fester there.
Of course, everything in our homes don’t need to be cleaned with
the same frequency. That is why you really need several cleaning
schedules, including a daily, weekly, and seasonal schedule.
The Most Important Tasks To Focus On Might Surprise You
Believe it or not the most important tasks on the lists that follow
are not the big seasonal ones, like spring or fall cleaning. Instead,
the most important tasks are the daily and weekly ones. If
you do these tasks, consistently, then the most important cycles
in your home will continue moving as expected, and you will be
comfortable most of the time.
Therefore, if your eyes start to glaze over with all the tasks I’ve
listed, especially for quarterly, biannual or annual cleaning, just
ignore them, at least for now. Instead, focus on the daily and
weekly tasks, which will yield the most satisfying results for
yourself and your home.