Clean top – down right-left (S pattern), not in a circular shape: it’s definitely more
efficient, because you don’t pass a dirty cloth on an area you just cleaned. In a wider
sense, dust tends to fall, so never start cleaning a room by sweeping and mopping the
floor. First, the cupboards/shelves, then counters/tables, then chairs/couches and finally
the floor. When you mop the floor, start from the farthest corner of the room and work
your way towards the entrance, also following an S pattern.
Whenever you are setting up to clean a room, just make sure you have all the products
you are going to need: you are going to save a lot of time if you are not constantly going
from one room to the other looking for a sponge, or a cloth, or a pair of gloves. This is
especially important when you mop the floor: don’t leave things you might need on a
table or a counter that you are not going to be able to reach before the floor gets dry.
GENERAL TIPS
Especially in the bathroom, you can make sure that your cleaning will last longer by
drying everything with a microfiber cloth after you wash it. It can be really useful.
Let the products sink/set: don’t just pass them and wipe them away with water, let them
do their job! This is especially important when you use corrosive products.
Move things around: dirt piles up under the furniture and electric equipment. When you
sweep/mop the floor, try and free as much space as possible by moving the furniture
(including couches) at least twice a month.
2
Use fresh lemon juice to get rid of rust stains on sink areas (remember to let it do its
work, you don’t need to scrub a lot). Just dip half a lemon in salt and pass it on the stain.
If you have them, dust the blinds regularly (at least twice per month) with a microfiber
cloth.
To get rid of limestone, soak paper towels in vinegar, and put them on the faucet. You
can also use vinegar to unclog shower-heads (just put some in a plastic bag with an
equal amount of water, put it on the showerhead and let it sink overnight).
Wash shower/bathtubs curtains regularly to prevent them from piling up mold. Don’t
forget to wash towels and/or bathmats at least once per week (if you are the only one
using them: if you are sharing them of course do it more often).
Soak a piece of cotton coil in bleach and let it sit overnight on the moldy edges of
bathtubs/showers to clean them.
Bleach the grout between the tiles (in the bathroom, kitchen or anywhere else) using a
clinging gel, by filling the grout lines with it and waiting for 10-15 minutes, then
scrubbing them with a toothbrush, letting it sit for another 5 minutes, and mopping with
just water to wash the cleaner away.
For a deep cleaning of stove burners, put them in a bag of ammonia overnight.

Keeping the bathroom/s clean must always be a priority, especially if more
than 2/3 people are sharing the same toilet/sink/shower/bathtub. Also -
depending on the "level of usage” – the need to clean it can vary a lot, so
there is no fixed cleaning frequency. There are minimum standards, though
(see below).
5
Clean the toilets thoroughly at least 1-2 times per week (that means all parts of the
toilet, not just the most visible ones). Remember that the more frequently you scrub
the toilets, the easier and quicker the scrubbing will be. Use a specific gel, a sponge
exclusively for the toilet.
In countries where wipes cannot be thrown into the toilets, there’s always a bin next
to them. This means that it’s very important to change the toilet bins at any time
necessary.
For the same reason, remember to clean the bins and the toilet brush boxes and pour
out any water weekly to prevent bad smells.
Clean the sinks, taps, the shower/bathtubs, the tiles around them and the shelves at
least 1-2 times per week, using a generic degreasing and disinfectant gel or spray
product and a sponge or a wet microfiber cloth. Mirrors should be cleaned with the
same frequency, using a specific product for glass. If the shower has a glass door, you
can use the same product on it.
If there is common soap and a common towel for handswashing, make sure that there
is soap for each sink and that the common towel is clean (of course, change it if it’s
not).
The bathroom’s floor tends to be the most humid floor in the house, and even in the
cleanest houses, it’s inevitable that some hair will be on it: since dirt accumulates
very easily and quickly, sweep/mop it at any time necessary. For more details on
products to be used, see the "Floor” section.
Procedures:
6
Baking soda – cleans, deodorizes, scours
Borax – cleans, deodorizes, disinfects
Castile soap or vegetable oil-based liquid
soap – cleans
Distilled white vinegar – cuts grease and
soap scum, dissolves mineral deposits,
inhibits mold, freshens; reportedly kills
99% of bacteria, 82% of mold, and 80% of
viruses
Essential oils – freshen, disinfect
Kosher salt – scours, disinfects

Measuring cups and spoons
Jars
Spray bottles


TUB AND TILE CLEANER:
In a jar or spray bottle,
combine 1 2/3 cup baking
soda with 1/2 cup vegetable
oil-based liquid soap. Add
1/2 cup water and 2
tablespoons vinegar. Shake
before using. Apply with a
cloth or sponge and rinse
well.
SCOURING POWDER:
Combine 1 cup baking soda,
1 cup borax, and 1 cup
kosher salt in a jar. Sprinkle
on area to be cleaned, wipe
with a sponge, and rinse.

• TOILET BOWL CLEANER:
Mix 1/4 cup borax or baking
soda and 1 cup vinegar in
the toilet. Let it sit for 15
minutes (or longer, if
necessary), scrub, and flush.

GLASS CLEANER:
Combine 1/4 cup vinegar and
4 cups warm water in a spray
bottle. Use to clean glass or
mirrors with a dry cloth or
piece of newspaper.
FLOOR SANITIZER:
In a bucket, mix 1/2 cup
borax with 2 gallons hot
water. Apply with a mop or
sponge. Rinsing is not
necessary.
SOAP SCUM REMOVER:
Sprinkle on baking soda,
scrub with a cloth or sponge,
and rinse. Vinegar or kosher
salt also work.
MOLD OR MILDEW
REMOVER:
Mix 1/2 cup borax and 1/2 cup
vinegar to make a paste.
Scrub with a brush or sponge
and rinse with water. For
tough mold, let it sit for an
hour before rinsing with
water.
• CALCIUM OR LIME
REMOVER:
For calcium or lime deposits
on a chrome faucet, soak a
towel in vinegar and wrap it
around the faucet. Let it sit
for a couple of hours or
overnight.
D
DRAIN CLEANER:
Pour 1/2 cup baking soda into
drain followed by 1 cup
vinegar. Let it sit and fizz for
15 minutes, then rinse with
hot or boiling water. May
need to repeat or leave
baking soda and vinegar in
overnight.



